Report for Employee Management Project

The Employee Management project is a Java program that simulates an organization with different types of employees and departments. The program consists of five classes: Employee, Department, Manager, Developer, Marketing, and IT.

The Employee class is an abstract class that has the properties of an employee such as name, age, and salary. It also has a constructor that initializes these properties, and getters and setters to access and modify them.

The Department class is also an abstract class that has the properties of a department such as name and budget. It also has a constructor that initializes these properties, and getters and setters to access and modify them. It has an interface named Operation that has a method named performOperation which will be implemented by different department operations such as hiring, firing, budget allocation, etc.

The Manager class is a derived class of the Employee class. It has additional properties such as team and department. It has a constructor that initializes these properties, and getters and setters to access and modify them.

The Developer class is a derived class of the Employee class. It has additional properties such as technology and experience. It has a constructor that initializes these properties, and getters and setters to access and modify them.

The Marketing class is a derived class of the Department class. It has additional properties such as campaigns and events. It has a constructor that initializes these properties, and getters and setters to access and modify them. It also implements the Operation interface with a method implementation of the performOperation method that will simulate marketing campaigns and events.

The IT class is a derived class of the Department class. It has additional properties such as technology and infrastructure. It has a constructor that initializes these properties, and getters and setters to access and modify them. It also implements the Operation interface with a method implementation of the performOperation method that will simulate IT operations such as hiring, firing, and budget allocation.

In the main method, objects of different types of employees and departments are created, and employee management and department operations are simulated by calling the performOperation method of the respective department.

For example, a Manager object named manager is created with a Marketing department object as a parameter. Similarly, Developer, Marketing, and IT objects are also created. The program then outputs the details of the manager's department, team, and budget.

The program can be further extended by adding more classes and methods to simulate additional organizational operations and functionalities. Overall, the program provides a good foundation for simulating employee management and departmental operations in an organization.