Features of Java

1) Simple : Java is a simple programming language and easy to understand because it does not contain complexities that exist
 		in prior programming languages. In fact, simplicity was the design aim of Javasoft peoples,
		 because it has to work on electronic devices where less memory/resources are available.

2) Object-Oriented :  which means in Java everything is written in terms of classes and objects
				    Object is nothing but a real world entity that can represent any person, place, or thing and can be distinguished from others
				   Every object near us has some state and behavior associated with it    
 For example, my mobile phone, it is a real world entity and has states like color, model, brand, camera quality, etc
 and these properties are represented by variables

*Class and Object :  A collection of objects that exhibits the same state and behavior will come under the same group called class

*Encapsulation :  is a process of wrapping code and data together into a single unit, for example, a capsule which is mixed of several medicines

*Abstraction  : Abstraction is a feature of OOPs. The feature allows us to hide the implementation detail from the user and shows only the functionality of the programming to the user

*Inheritance : is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object. It is an important part of OOPs (Object Oriented programming system)

*Polymorphism : is a concept by which we can perform a single action in different ways. Polymorphism is derived from 2 Greek words: poly and morphs. The word "poly" means many 
				and "morphs" means forms. So polymorphism means many forms

3)Platform Independent : Java is platform independent because it is different from other languages like C, C++, etc. which are compiled into platform specific machines while 
						Java is a write once, run anywhere language. A platform is the hardware or software environment in which a program runs
						There are two types of platforms software-based and hardware-based. Java provides a software-based platform


4) Secured : In today’s era, security is a major concern of every application. As now every device is connected to each other using the internet and this opens up the possibility of hacking.
			 And our application build using java also needs some sort of security. So Java also provides security features to the programmers.
Java is best known for its security. With Java, we can develop virus-free systems. Java is secured because:

=>No explicit pointer
=>Java Programs run inside a virtual machine sandbox
=>Classloader: Classloader in Java is a part of the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) which is used to load Java classes into the Java Virtual Machine dynamically

=>Bytecode Verifier: It checks the code fragments for illegal code that can violate access rights to objects.

=>Security Manager: It determines what resources a class can access such as reading and writing to the local disk.

5) Portable : Java is portable because it facilitates you to carry the Java bytecode to any platform. It doesn't require any implementation.

6) Dynamic : Java is a dynamic language. It supports the dynamic loading of classes. It means classes are loaded on demand. It also supports functions from its native languages, i.e., C and C++.

7) Robust : The Java Programming language is robust, which means it is capable of handling unexpected termination of a program
			There are 2 reasons behind this, first, it has a most important and helpful feature called Exception Handling
			 reason why Java is strong lies in its memory management features. Unlike other low level languages, Java provides a runtime Garbage collector offered by JVM, which collects all the unused variables
			It uses strong memory management.
			There is a lack of pointers that avoids security problems.

8)High-performance : Java is faster than other traditional interpreted programming languages because Java bytecode is "close" to native code. It is still a little bit slower than a compiled language (e.g., C++).
					    Java is an interpreted language that is why it is slower than compiled languages, e.g., C, C++, etc.

9) Multi-Threaded : A thread is like a separate program, executing concurrently. We can write Java programs that deal with many tasks at once by defining multiple threads.
					Thread is a lightweight and independent subprocess of a running program (i.e, process) that shares resources.
					And when multiple threads run simultaneously is called multi-threading. In many applications, you have seen multiple tasks running simultaneously, 
					for example, Google Docs where while typing text, the spell check and autocorrect task are running.

10) Interpreted : When we start learning Java programming, one question arises: whether Java is interpreted or Compiled, or both. Also, this question may be asked by the interviewee in your Java-related interviews. 
		    So the answer to this question is Java is both Interpreted and compiled.
